# Apriori_algo
Finding closed frequent itemset using apriori algorithm


It is quite doable on the paper and even on the computer but only with small data sets. when we deal with something like 3196 transaction having 37 items in each row, we need algo to solve. Thanks to the apriori algo, which helps to find the frequent itemset satisfying minimum support, which in our case is 2500. 

The code starts with one item frequent itemset and converges till 10-item frequent itemset. no any itemset transaction above 10 satisfy the minimum support criteria and hence, it gives us the most frequent itemset.

The dataset "chess.dat" has been given upon which the code is completely based. little hardcode has been done in specifying the 2-d array size while reading the dataset. It can be made dynamic depending upon the dataset size with ease. Make sure you have patience while running the code, because it takes about 2 to 3 minutes while printing all 1-size to 10-size frequent itemset.

ISSUES:
The program is not fully efficient and has a slight discrepancy in the middle. when L2 is generated, a union of all the transactions has been taken at once, which is not according to the apriori algo, however the result is still correct according to the anti-monocity property of the apriori algo which says that the superset of an infrequent itemset will also be infrequent.
Here, union of all the transaction has been taken and then c3 is generated by taking a subset of size-3. what required is that we need to take the union of only those transactions, which start with the same item and then make a subset of 3 elements.

